Easily add "Gravatars":http://gravatar.com to your Ruby objects.


h2. Install

  sudo gem install gravtastic


h2. Usage

Somewhere in your application you need to @require 'gravtastic'@. In Rails >= 2.1 you can forego this and just add a dependency gem dependency for Gravtastic.

    config.gem 'gravtastic'

If you are using Merb & DataMapper you can add do the same by adding the following to your init.rb file:

  dependency 'gravtastic'

Make sure you add this after either the @use_orm :datamapper@ line or after a DataMapper extension. The next step is to give your model a Gravatar:

  class User
    is_gravtastic
  end

If you are using a standard Ruby class you have to add the line @include Gravtastic::Resource@ before @is_gravtastic@.
  
This defaults to looking for the gravatar ID on the @email@ method. So, if your @User@ has an @email@ then it will send that to Gravatar to get their picture. You can change the default gravatar source like this:

  is_gravtastic :with => :author_email

Now, you can access your object's gravatar with the @gravatar_url@ method:

  current_user.gravatar_url
  => "http://gravatar.com/e9e719b44653a9300e1567f09f6b2e9e.png?r=PG"

Note that it defaults to a PG rating. You can specify extra options with a hash:

  current_user.gravatar_url(:rating => 'R', :size => 512)
  => "http://gravatar.com/e9e719b44653a9300e1567f09f6b2e9e.png?r=R18&s=512"
  
  current_user.gravatar_url(:secure => true)
  => "https://secure.gravatar.com/e9e719b44653a9300e1567f09f6b2e9e.png?r=PG"
  
However, to DRY things up you can specify defaults in the class declaration.

  is_gravtastic :with => :author_email, :rating => 'R', :size => 20

Nice, now all the calls to gravatar_url will have the defaults you have specified. Any options that you pass when you use @gravatar_url@ will over-ride these class-defaults.

PS.  Bonus points for anybody who can tell me what that users email is!


h2. Authors

* "Chris Lloyd":http://chrislloyd.com.au
* You


h2. Contribute

You can checkout the source or fork it yourself from Github.

  git clone git://github.com/chrislloyd/gravtastic.git

If you submit a successful patch then you'll be given full commit rights to the project.


h2. Thanks

* "Xavier Shay":http://rhnh.net and others for "Enki":http://enkiblog.com (the reason this was written)
* "Matthew Moore":http://www.matthewpaulmoore.com/ for helpful suggestions and for submitting it to the official list of Gravatar implementations.
* "Vincent Charles":http://vincentcharles.com/ For an updated README.



h2. License

Copyright (c) 2008 Chris Lloyd.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
